23-02 Meeting notes

Grant:
Zoe has notes, gave to Adon. Will forward to everyone
$20,000 from Internet NZ: put LoRaNET in Dunedin, other talks about 
$5,500 is gone, from OP research overhead

Budgety down to $14,000.

Sense of urgency, contract was signed 1.5 years ago!
IoT presentation with Counsel, Nokia, Chorus, interest in Smart City in Dunedin. Net already up Kotahi Net, run by Mega (Kim Dot Com associate)
Tussok tasked as initial IoT project. Competition 2 years ago ish about setting up smart city. Started with flooding sensors. Looking at mud traps levels.
Gigatown related funding. Deployed sensors on Kotaki Net, issues with line of site, but it's partly working. Wasn't what the counsel was wanting. No consistency in levels across Dunedin.
Interested in the covering of the drains and the silt levels at the bottom.
Moving away from LoRa, which leaves it open for us. Interested in getting their own devices onto a different net, aka LoRa
Bus routes, water quality. Lots of excitement for another working network.
Adon mentioned that it could be working by July on our behalf.

Back on Grant:
Sam: Big picture stuff. Net up and running, such and such community projects, 8+ per year, 4 research outputs.

Steven Turnbull: head of ISS, acting deputy leader for. Interested in getting gateway at top of F block. Key in deployment, with contacts all over town.
For ease and testing, LoRa Gateway would go on top of F block. From there, look at competing requests and as a group decide where to put next gateway.
Has 2 other gateway locations (Roslyn, South D)

Peter Brook: Taking small amount of budget, wants to also use LoRa. Can count as one community project

Devices:
Total Gateways: min 5
City coverage: 2-3 (Ros, SD, Poly)
One as test/hackup in project room.
Good to have one in reserve (Orokonui, Portobello, Taieri Valley)
Must be Bluetooth compatable. 
Devices should have IPv6 (or IPv4 if unavailable) and SSH access
GPS would be convenient.

Buy 5 now, or 1 and get 4 later?
Time VS Stability VS Money.

3-5 days delivery within NZ. Weeks-Months for international. Rob says get from national sources. Money can be found for these projects.

Local companies: Semtech (Auckland), another one or two.
Tussok recommends: tried and tested, really stable hardware. Guy isn't around until 2nd week of March.

Frequency:
Kotahi 966 frequency
Swiftlit: 850-928
He recommends high 920s
Someone else uses 922
925 might be the highest we can go.

Budgeting:
$14,000
Sensors: water levels for the gardens. Weight/secondary for bins. Room sensors (all emcumbersing), the big one. In the hundreds, not thousands. $3000 ($500- $600 per round)
Go off the shelf with your gateways. Eg Tussock is off the shelf and heavily modified.
$2000 for food, research costs, etc
$2000 for installation costs
$7000 for gateways.

Look at ways to economise on budget. Multitasking installation costs.


3 Options for gateway/source. Decide by Monday.
1. US. $399. USB put onto PC or Raspberry Pi
1. Local: $1700 from Auckland

To Receive:
Grant Report
Documentation
Have a chat with Greg (outside the building)
